---
title: v1.0
---

## v1.0.0-beta.0

This is a big update with quite a few breaking changes. Here are the biggest updates.

* [Responsive Layouts](#layouts)
* [i18n Improvements](#i18n-improvements)
* [Modern Design](#modern-design)
* [Theming & Dark Mode](#theming-dark-mode)
* [Attributes API](#attributes-api)
* [Datepicker Improvements](#datepicker-improvements)
* [Popper.js Integration](#popper-js-integration)
* [Defaults Restructuring](#defaults-restructuring)
* [Modifications to Props & Events](#modifications-to-props-events)
* [Bug Fixes](#bug-fixes)

### Quick Update

#### Install next version of `v-calendar`

```bash
npm install --save v-calendar@next
```

#### VCalendar & VDatePicker

* Replace `is-double-paned` and `is-vertical` props and with `rows` and `columns`. Use the `$screens` function for custom responsive layouts.
* Combine `weeks-transition` and `title-transition` props into single `transition` prop.
* Rename `formats` prop and `formats` default setting to `masks`
* Replace `tint-color` with `color` and `is-dark` props
* Remove any use of `is-linked`, `pane-width` and `theme-styles` props

#### VDatePicker Only

* Combine `popover-direction` and `popover-align` props with the `placement` property of the new `popover` prop. [Read more](#popper-js-integration)
* Remove any use of `popover-content-style`, `popover-expanded` and `popover-show-clear-margin` props.
* Remove any use of `date-formatter`, `date-parser`, 
* Remove any use of `show-caps`. Highlights now use the `fillMode` property for this.

### Responsive Layouts

In pre-v1 versions you could create double-paned calendars via the `is-double-paned` and `is-vertical` props. While better than nothing, only getting up to 2 panes in a single calendar was limiting and the built-in responsiveness was not great. Now you have multiple props to configure your own layouts.

| | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `rows` | Number | Number of calendar pane rows |
| `columns` | Number | Number of calendar pane columns |

For responsive designs, you can use the newly provided `$screens` function to make these props responsive (or any other prop for that matter). For example, this will get you 2 columns and 2 rows on large layouts.

```html
<v-calendar
  :rows="$screens({ default: 1, lg: 2 })"
  :columns="$screens({ default: 1, lg: 2 })"
  />
```

<div class="example">
  <v-calendar
    :rows="$screens({ default: 1, lg: 2 })"
    :columns="$screens({ default: 1, lg: 2 })"
    />
</div>

One extra nicety: because this function is provided via a lightweight mixin, you can use it to make any prop on any component responsive.

[Read more about creating responsive layouts.](../guide/readme.md#responsive-layouts)

### i18n Improvements

Previously, you could only define a single locale for all instances of `v-calendar` in your application. Now, you can pass a `locale` prop to each instance of `v-calendar`. It can either be a locale string identifier...

```html
<v-calendar locale="es" />
```

<div class="example">
  <v-calendar locale="es" />
</div>

...or an object with the `id` and optional `firstDayOfWeek` or `masks`.

```html
<v-calendar :locale="{ id: 'da', firstDayOfWeek: 2, masks: { weekdays: 'WW' } }" />
```

<div class="example">
  <v-calendar :locale="{ id: 'da', firstDayOfWeek: 2, masks: { weekdays: 'WW' } }" />
</div>

:::tip
If `firstDayOfWeek` or `masks` are supplied as top level props, they will override those defined by the locale.
:::

If you don't provide a `locale` prop, it still reverts to the locale detected by the browser.

Also, you can provide a locales object within your own defaults to provide info for any locales not natively detected by `v-calendar` or the browser.

```js
import VCalendar from 'v-calendar';
// When using VCalendar
Vue.use(VCalendar, {
  locales: {
    'pt-PT': {
      firstDayOfWeek: 1,
      masks: {
        L: 'YYYY-MM-DD',
        // ...optional `title`, `weekdays`, `navMonths`, etc
      }
    }
  }
});
```

Then, simply use the locale in your calendar by passing the locale id (key above).

```html
<v-calendar locale="pt-PT" />
```

<div class="example">
  <v-calendar locale="pt-PT" />
</div>

[Read more about working with i18n.](./readme.md#i18n)

### Modern Design

In this release I went back to the drawing board with the design. I decided to go with a more clean and modern look, which overall led to cleaner, solid backgrounds, more appropriate font weights, less borders and improved visual hierarchy.

### Theming & Dark Mode

In deciding to modernize the design, I also wanted it to look great for multiple colors. That led to redesigning the theming system so that it would look great out of the box but also flexible for multiple scenarios. I'm still working towards the best solution to implement this, but right now I feel like I've got the overall approach nailed down.

:::warning
Nailing down the best approach to theming is in work!
:::

### Attributes API

### Datepicker Improvements

#### Input debounce

You can now debounce the rate at which the date picker value changes after the input text has changed. This can be configured with the `input-debounce` prop (in milliseconds).

#### Date selection popover removed from core

While including the date selection popover might have been nice for some, I don't feel it was used enough to warrant having it included in the core plugin. As a result, the `show-day-popover` prop has been deprecated. I think I will create a little tutorial on re-creating it within a custom `select-attribute` for those who really want to have it.

#### Combine popover related props into single `popover` object

There is now a single `popover` prop that combines any popover related properties. As a result of using Popper.js for popovers, the `popover-direction` and `popover-align` props have been replaced in favor of the `popover-placement` which essentially combines them together. The next section covers the new popover related properties.

### Popper.js Integration

All use of popovers, including atributes, the navigation pane and the date picker input, now use [Popper.js](popperjs.com) under the hood for more accurate and adaptable layout positioning. For example, if the window size doesn't allow for positioning the popover in the desired position, it will get rearranged to a new position visible to the user.

Also, each calendar shares a single popover for all day attributes. This helps improve performance and memory usage, as each day doesn't need to have its own separate popover instance.

The following configuration properties may be used for `v-date-picker.popover`, `v-calendar.nav-popover` and popovers for attributes.

| | Type | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `visibility` | String | 
| `placement` | String | *Default* placement for the popover. This could get change as the window resizes. Reference the [Popper.js documentation](https://popper.js.org/popper-documentation.html#popperplacements--enum) documentation for more details. |

:::tip
Some examples of valid popover placements include
* `"bottom"`: Below reference, Center aligned
* `"bottom-start"`: Below reference, Left aligned
* `"top-end"`: Above reference, Right aligned
* `"left-start"`: Left of reference, Top aligned
* `"right-end"`: Right of reference, Bottom aligned

:::

### Defaults Restructuring

### Modifications to Props & Events

Below is a comprehensive list of all deprecated and added props and events.

#### `v-calendar`

| Deprecated Props | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| `is-double-paned` | Use `rows` and `columns` instead |
| `is-vertical` | Use `rows` and `columns` instead |
| `is-linked` | Calendar panes are now always linked |
| `title-transition` | Now tied to `transition` prop |
| `weeks-transition` | Now tied to `transition` prop |
| `pane-width` | Use the new `theme` prop or just plain CSS |
| `theme-styles` | Use the new `theme` prop or just plain CSS |
| `formats` | Replaced by the `masks` prop |

| Deprecated Events | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `daymouseover` | Use `daymouseenter` instead |

| Added Props | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| `rows` | Number of calendar rows to display |
| `columns` | Number of calendar columns to display |
| `step` | Number of months to step when navigating forwards and backwards. This defaults to `rows * columns`. |
| `transition` | Transition type for calendar panes when navigating to a new page (`"slide-h"`: Horizontal slide, `"slide-v"`: Vertical slide, `"fade"`, `"none"`) |
| `from-date` | Date used to compute `from-page` |
| `to-date` | Date used to compute `to-page` |
| `min-date` | Date used to compute `min-page` |
| `max-date` | Date used to computed `max-page` |
| `color` | Sets color for the theme (`gray`, `yellow`, `orange`, `red`, `pink`, `purple`, `indigo`, `blue`, `teal`, `green`). You can also specify the theme color via the `theme` prop. |
| `is-dark` | Sets dark mode for the current theme |
| `masks` | Replaces the `formats` prop |

#### `v-date-picker`

| Deprecated Props | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| `date-formatter` | Formatting is performed by the configured locale. |
| `date-parser` | Parsing is performed by the configured locale. |
| `tint-color` | Replaced by the `color` prop or a configured theme object. |
| `show-caps` | Caps are now configured by the highlights [fillMode](../guide/attributes.md). |
| `show-popover` | The previously included popover has been removed from the core library. |
| `popover-direction` | This has been replaced by the `placement` property of the added `popover` prop. |
| `popover-align` | This has been replaced by the `placement` property of the added `popover` prop. |
| `popover-content-style` | Replaced by the configured theme. |
| `popover-expanded` | There is no concept of an expanded popover anymore. |
| `popover-show-clear-margin` | All popovers are now absolute positioned. |

| Added Props | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| `input-debounce` | Number of milliseconds to debounce before updating the date picker value after the input value changes. Only applies when `is-inline === false` and `updateOnInput === true`. |
| `popover` | Configuration object for the input/custom slot popover. |


### Bug Fixes

## v1.0.0-beta.1

### Bug Fixes

* Fix click handler for calendar days to support Mobile Safari
* Re-add support for `title-position` prop
* Add `disable-page-swipe` prop for disabling page swiping. This is mostly needed when building custom calendars that need to support overflow scrolling.

## v1.0.0-beta.2

### Bug Fixes

* Fix extractor for TailwindCSS
* Add nesting rules to PostCSS config

## v1.0.0-beta.4

### Bug Fixes

* Fix whitelisting for PurgeCSS

## v1.0.0-beta.5

### Bug Fixes

* Undo tap handlers on mobile preventing click events on days with popovers (this needs to be done another way)
* Fix scoped slot names for `header-left-button` and `header-right-button`

### Improvements

* Significantly improve performance when displaying many attributes

## v1.0.0-beta.7, beta.8

### Bug Fixes
* Fix date matching logic for multi-date picker
* Remove global base styles getting applied
* Theme fixes

### Improvements
* Add support for disabling dates in `v-calendar`
* Auto-adjust page ranges for date picker values
* Remove unused code

## v1.0.0-beta.9

### Bug Fixes
* Fix pages not getting refreshed on initial screen size detection
* Fix drag values getting reset in `v-date-picker`
* Fix edge-case with attribute change detection

### Improvements
* Add new `is-dragging` and `hidePopover` props for default slot in `v-date-picker`
* Update `README.md`

## v1.0.0-beta.10

### Bug Fixes
* Fix event handling when using custom default slot for `v-date-picker`

### Improvements
* Add support for new `"hover-focus"` popover visibility state (new default state)
* Disable pointer events for non-interactive popovers

## v1.0.0-beta.11

### Bug Fixes
* Apply base border styles to popover

### Improvements
* Clean up attribute code
* Add `navCellDisabled` theme setting

## v1.0.0-beta.12

### Bug Fixes
* Apply reset style to properly display borders using Tailwind
* Fix bug when resetting attributes

## v1.0.0-beta.13

### Bug Fixes
* Fix reuse of existing attribute when resetting

## v1.0.0-beta.14

### Bug Fixes
* Fix `min-date`, `max-date`, `disabled-dates` and `available-dates` not refreshing when reassigned
* Fix locale masks getting overwritten when provided as defaults

### Improvements
* Support more date type parameters for the `showPageRange()` method

## v1.0.0-beta.15

### Bug Fixes
* Fix pages cache not invalidating after locale updates

### Improvements
* New accessibility features
  * Add `aria-label` html attributes to day, month, year navigation elements
  * Support day, month and year keyboard navigation using the following keys
    * `Up`, `Down`, `Left` and `Right` for moving days, months and years
    * `Home` and `End` for moving to first and last row elements
    * `PageUp` and `PageDown` for moving months
    * `PageUp+Alt` and `PageDown+Alt` for moving years
    * `Space` and `Ender` for selecting months and years in navigation popover
  * For date picker
    * `Space` and `Enter` for selecting days and modifying dragged selection in `range` mode
* Convert all `rem` measurements to `px` to improve consistency across CSS frameworks and browsers

## v1.0.0-beta.16

### Improvements
* Migrate from buttons to avoid default browser styling
* Improve focus styles for navigation elements

## ~~v1.0.0-beta.17~~
::: danger
This version was unpublished and should not be used.
:::

## ~~v1.0.0-beta.18~~
::: danger
This version was unpublished and should not be used.
:::

## v1.0.0-beta.19

### Bug Fixes
* Whitelist text/background/border hover class variants
* Fix bug when dismissing popover after new date is selected
* Fix bug where typed disabled dates wouldn't get cleared from input

### Improvements
* Update `Locale` and `Theme` classes to improve testability
* Added tests for locale and theme handling
* Allow hover, focus and click events to support popovers for disabled days
* Calling `setupCalendar(opts)` not required when importing components separately. If you wish to setup plugin defaults for all instances of `v-calendar` and `v-date-picker`, calling this function is still required, but importing it no longer includes the entire package.
* ~~Dynamically import components when using plugin to reduce initial bundle sizes~~
:::warning
As of this time, Webpack can't resolve chunks for dynamic imports from within 3rd party packages.
:::

#### `v-date-picker`
* Added back in popover show/hide events
* `popoverWillShow`: Called just before picker popover transitions into view
* `popoverDidShow`: Called just after picker popover has transitioned into view
* `popoverWillHide`: Called just before picker popover transitions out of view
* `popoverDidHide`: Called just after picker popover has transitioned out of view

## v1.0.0-beta.20

### Bug Fixes
* Fix locking bug when trying to use keyboard to navigate to disabled pages
* Remove border styles from `vc-reset` class

### Improvements
* Pin navigation popover to bottom position
* Adjust theme settings for container and date picker input

## v1.0.0-beta.21

### Improvements
* Improve tab handling for date picker
* Add `positionFixed` option for date picker and attribute popovers to overcome containers with `overlay: hidden`

## v1.0.0-beta.22
* Fix popover bug with `focus` visibility

## v1.0.0-beta.23

### Bug Fixes
* Fix bug when setting `end: null` for complex dates. Closes #431.
* Fix random navigation arrow glitches in Chrome when paging via keyboard.

### Improvements
* New `move` method with flexible parameters and asynchronous support
* Remove use of `Array` spread for improved Babel support
* Remove default input styling for dark mode. Closes #450.
* Close popovers on `escape`

## v1.0.0

* Merge `next` into `master` :tada: :tada: :tada:

## v1.0.1

## Bug Fixes
* Fix merge bug that affected input updates

## v1.0.2

### Improvements
* Export helper classes and methods from `lib.js`
* Removes unnecessary `z-index` from calendar arrows

### Bug Fixes
* Allows entering ISO-8601 formatted dates in date picker
