---
title: v2.0
---

## v2.0.0

This version introduces a significant number of breaking changes, all of which have been introduced to streamline component simplicity and size.

Reference the guides below to help update your `v-calendar` and `v-date-picker` components to `v2.0.0`.

### Add `@popperjs/core` to `dependencies`

[Popper.js](https://popper.js.org/) has been converted to a peer dependency to trim down the size of the package. As a result, `@popperjs/core` must be installed as a dependency within your application in order for popovers to work properly.

### Calendar Conversion Guide

1. [Use timezones (optional)](#_1-use-timezones-optional)
2. [Use `footer` scoped slot](#_2-use-footer-scoped-slot)
3. [Attribute styles](#_3-attribute-styles)

<br />

### 1. Use timezones (optional)

Timezone support via `timezone` prop (`UTC`, `America/Chicago`, etc.)
  * Local timezone is used if not supplied (default)
  * Timezone names allowed (`UTC`, `America/Chicago`, etc.)
  * Uses `Intl` api for native browser date conversions

:::warning
The `timezone` prop is optional and should only be used in special cases.
:::

[Read more about using timezones.](/timezones)

<br />

### 2. Use `footer` scoped slot

The `footer` slot may be used to place your own custom content at the bottom of the calendar.

<guide-readme-cal-footer />

```html
<v-calendar ref="calendar">
  <template v-slot:footer>
    <div class="bg-gray-100 text-center p-2 border-t rounded-b-lg">
      <button
        class="bg-blue-500 text-white font-medium px-2 py-1 rounded hover:bg-blue-600"
        @click="moveToToday"
      >
        Today
      </button>
    </div>
  </template>
</v-calendar>
```

```js
export default {
  methods: {
    moveToToday() {
      this.$refs.calendar.move(new Date());
    },
  },
};
```

<br />

### 3. Attribute styles

Style objects may now be assigned to attributes via the following properties.

| Attribute Type | Properties |
| --- | --- |
| `highlight` | `style`, `contentStyle` |
| `dot` | `style` |
| `bar` | `style` |

<guide-attributes-dot-style />

```html
<v-calendar :attributes="attributes" />
```

```js
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      attributes: [
        { dot: { style: { backgroundColor: 'brown' } }, dates: new Date() },
      ],
    };
  },
};
```

<br />

### Date Picker Conversion Guide

1. [Use `mode` for new time picker](#_1-new-time-picker)
2. [Use `is-range` for date ranges](#_2-use-is-range-for-date-ranges)
3. [Multiple dates deprecated](#_3-multiple-dates-deprecated)
4. [Bind to date strings & numbers](#_4-bind-to-date-strings-numbers)
5. [Set default times for date selections](#_5-set-default-times-for-date-selections)
6. [New time mask tokens](#_6-new-time-mask-tokens)
7. [Remove `is-inline` prop](#_7-remove-is-inline-prop)
8. [Update custom `input` slot bindings](#_8-update-custom-input-slot-bindings)

<br />

### 1. Use `mode` for new time picker

The `mode` prop has been repurposed to enable date and/or time selection.

#### Date Picker Only (default)

Use `date` mode to select the date **only**. This is the default mode and is not strictly required.

<guide-datepicker-with-value />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="date" mode="date" />
```

#### Date & Time Picker

Use `dateTime` mode to allow for selecting dates **and** times using the new time picker. Times are displayed and modified using the local timezone unless specified via the `timezone` prop.

<guide-datepicker-with-value mode="dateTime" />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="date" mode="dateTime" />
```

#### Time Picker Only

Use `time` mode to select the time **only**.

<guide-datepicker-with-value mode="time" />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="date" mode="time" />
```

<br />

### 2. Use `is-range` for date ranges

Since the `mode` prop no longer can be used to select date ranges, use the `is-range: Boolean` prop to bind to date ranges.

<guide-datepicker-with-value mode="dateTime" is-range />

```html
<v-date-picker mode="dateTime" v-model="dateRange" is-range>
```

```js
data() {
  return {
    dateRange: {
      start: new Date(2020, 0, 6),
      end: new Date(2020, 0, 10),
    }
  }
}
```

<br />

### 3. Multiple dates deprecated

Multiple date selection mode has been deprecated in favor of using a slot to provide more flexible user interface patterns.

[Reference this example as an idea for a replacement option.](/examples/datepickers#multiple-dates)

<br />

### 4. Bind to date strings & numbers

Previously, you could only bind to Javascript dates. Now it is possible to bind directly to string and number date values without manual conversion by setting the `type` and `mask` properties of the `model-config` prop.

[Read more about binding to date strings and numbers.](/datepicker#model-config)

<br />

### 5. Set default times for date selections

When the user selects a new date, it is now possible to auto-assign a default time value by setting the `timeAdjust` property of the `model-config` prop in `HH:mm:ss` format (use `now` for the current time of selection).

By default, time values are left unchanged from the original date value unless this property is assigned. [Read more about setting default times.](/datepicker#time-adjust)

<br />

### 6. New time mask tokens

New mask tokens have been added to support user time entry. When providing your own `input` element as a default slot, use the `masks.input` setting with the tokens below to allow the user to type in their own times.

<guide-datepicker-input-with-time />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="date" mode="dateTime" :masks="masks">
  <template v-slot="{ inputValue, inputEvents }">
    <input
      class="bg-white border px-2 py-1 rounded"
      :value="inputValue"
      v-on="inputEvents"
    />
  </template>
</v-date-picker>
```

```js
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      date: new Date(),
      masks: {
        input: 'YYYY-MM-DD h:mm A',
      },
    };
  },
};
```

| | Token | Output |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Hour | `h` | 1 2 ... 11 12 |
| | `hh`| 01 02 ... 11 12 |
| | `H` | 0 1 ... 22 23 |
| | `HH`| 00 01 ... 22 23 |
| Minute | `m` | 0 1 ... 58 59 |
| | `mm` | 00 01 ... 58 59 |
| Second | `s` | 0 1 ... 58 59 |
| | `ss` | 00 01 ... 58 59 |
| AM/PM | `a` | am pm |
| | `A` | AM PM |
| Timezone | `X` | -07 -06 ... +06 +07 |
| | `XX` | -0700 -0600 ... +0600 +0700 |
| | `XXX` | -07:00 -06:00 ... +06:00 +07:00 |

<br />

### 7. Remove `is-inline` prop

`v-date-picker` now automatically displays pickers inline if no default slot is provided. This allows for the removal of the `is-inline` prop.

<guide-datepicker-intro-inline />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="date">
```

```js
data() {
  return {
    date: new Date()
  }
}
```

<br />

### 8. Update custom `input` slot bindings

Any default slot provided to `v-date-picker` will display the picker as a popover. There are 2 primary updates needed for binding your own `input` elements.

#### 1. `inputProps` deprecated

Since `v-date-picker` no longer provides its own `input` as a default slot, the `inputProps` prop has been deprecated. Instead, when you provide your own input slot, be sure to bind the `input`'s value to the `inputValue` slot prop.

<guide-datepicker-intro-popover />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="date">
  <template v-slot="{ inputValue, inputEvents }">
    <input
      class="bg-white border px-2 py-1 rounded"
      :value="inputValue"
      v-on="inputEvents"
    />
  </template>
</v-date-picker>
```

For date ranges, `inputValue` and `inputEvents` will provide their bindings within `start` and `end` sub-properties.


<guide-datepicker-range-input />

```html
<v-date-picker v-model="range" is-range>
  <template v-slot="{ inputValue, inputEvents }">
    <div class="flex justify-center items-center">
      <input
        :value="inputValue.start"
        v-on="inputEvents.start"
        class="border px-2 py-1 w-32 rounded focus:outline-none focus:border-indigo-300"
      />
      <svg
        class="w-4 h-4 mx-2"
        fill="none"
        viewBox="0 0 24 24"
        stroke="currentColor"
      >
        <path
          stroke-linecap="round"
          stroke-linejoin="round"
          stroke-width="2"
          d="M14 5l7 7m0 0l-7 7m7-7H3"
        />
      </svg>
      <input
        :value="inputValue.end"
        v-on="inputEvents.end"
        class="border px-2 py-1 w-32 rounded focus:outline-none focus:border-indigo-300"
      />
    </div>
  </template>
</v-date-picker>
```

```js
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      range: {
        start: new Date(2020, 9, 12),
        end: new Date(2020, 9, 16),
      },
    };
  },
};
```

[Read more abount providing custom `input` elements.](/datepicker.html#input)

## v2.0.1

### Enhancements

Time picker styling improvements.
Display non-matched `minute` options when using `minute-interval`

## v2.0.2

### Enhancements

Adds `footer` slot support for date pickers
Adds `popover.transition` option (`slide`, `slide-fade`, `none` or ``)
Uses passive touch handlers to prevent Chrome warning

### Bug Fixes

Fixes single use of `highlight.contentStyle` or `highlight.contentClass`

## v2.1.0

### Enhancements

* Fix `aria-label` for calendar days
* Adds `trim-weeks` prop for both calendars and date pickers
* Adds `force` options to `move` and `focusDate` methods
* Adds `move` and `focusDate` method wrappers to date picker
* Convert `move` and `focusDate` to promise-based methods for compatibility
* Adds `showDelay` and `hideDelay` options for date picker popover
* Adds `showDelay`, `hideDelay` and `transition` options for attribute popovers

## v2.1.1

* Fix explicit line-height for title

## v2.1.2

### Bug Fixes

* Fix container height in flex containers
* Fix disabled date detection
* Fix timezone offset calculation

## v2.1.3

### Bug Fixes

* Toggle date value to null if date is re-selected and `is-required` is false. This only applies if `is-range` is false
* Use `is-required` prop to prevent date null values on re-select or clearing input element
* Prevent hiding picker if disabled date is selected

### Enhancements

* Shortens picker popover hide delay to prevent multiple rapid date selections

## v2.1.4

### Bug Fixes

* Fix `popover.keepVisibleOnInput`
* Patch Media Query `addEventListener` for browsers < Safari 14, < Edge 16
* Fix focus styles in navigation pane

### Enhancements

* Remove dedicated `Grid` component to reduce DOM elements and package size
* Remove unnecessary JS/CSS
* Tighten min pane width to 250px

## v2.1.5

### Bug Fixes

* Fix css for nav current month, title & weekday labels

## v2.1.6

### Bug Fixes

* Fix time parse for browsers < Safari 14

## v2.2.0

### Bug Fixes

* Set timezone offset to 0 for ISO dates that end with Z
* Adjust date timezone to UTC when formatting with masks that end with Z

### Enhancements

* Use a default ISO mask for string dates that matches the browser: `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ`
* Add `Z`, `ZZ`, `ZZZ` and `ZZZZ` mask tokens
* Add unit tests for DatePicker and TimePicker with string dates

## v2.2.1

### Bug Fixes

* Fix bug with disabling certain month and year items if any min or max props are provided.

### Improvements

* Disables navigation to next and previous groups of month and year items when needed. :tada:

## v2.2.2

### Improvements

* Update lodash to fix security vulnerability

## v2.2.3

### Bug Fixes

* Fix `on-bottom` class when `trim-weeks` prop is used
* Fix date range clearing and page adjustment when end date is missing

## v2.2.4

### Bug Fixes

* Set `inheritAttrs` to false for calendar pane component
* Fix null dates for time picker when `mode === 'time'`

### Improvements

* Add `modelConfig.fillDate` parameter to fill missing date parts
* Provide `popover` options as defaults for `showPopover`, `hidePopover`, `togglePopover`