---
title: 'v1.0.0-beta.1'
sidebarDepth: 2
---

# v1.0.0-beta.1

This is a big update with quite a few breaking changes. Here are the biggest updates.

* [Responsive Layouts](#layouts)
* [i18n Improvements](#i18n-improvements)
* [Modern Design](#modern-design)
* [Theming & Dark Mode](#theming-dark-mode)
* [Attributes API](#attributes-api)
* [Datepicker Improvements](#datepicker-improvements)
* [Popperjs Integration](#popper-js-integration)

### Responsive Layouts

In pre-v1 versions, you could just create double-paned calendars via the `is-double-paned` and `is-vertical` props. While better than nothing, only getting 2 columns with 1 row was kind of limiting and the built-in responsiveness was not great. Now, you have multiple props to configure your own layouts.

| | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `rows` | Number | Number of calendar pane rows |
| `columns` | Number | Number of calendar pane columns |

For responsive designs, you can use the newly provided `$screens` function to make these props responsive (or any other prop for that matter). For example, this will get you 2 columns and 2 rows on large layouts.
```html
<v-calendar
  :rows="$screens({ default: 1, lg: 2 })"
  :columns="$screens({ default: 1, lg: 2 })"
  />
```

One extra nicety: because this function is provided via a lightweight mixin, you can use it to make any prop on any component responsive.

[Read more about creating responsive layouts.](./readme.md#responsive-layouts)

### i18n Improvements

Previously, you could only define a single locale for use by all instances of `v-calendar` in your application. Now, you can pass a `locale` prop to each instance of `v-calendar`. It can either be a locale string identifier or an object with your own custom localized settings. If you don't provide a `locale` prop, it still reverts to the locale detected by the browser.

Also, you can provide a locales object within your own defaults to provide info for any locales not natively detected by `v-calendar` or the browser.

[Read more about working with i18n.](./readme.md#i18n)

### Modern Design

### Theming and Dark Mode

### Attributes API

### Datepicker Improvements

### Popper.js Integration

All use of popovers, including atributes, the navigation pane and the date picker input, now use [Popper.js](popperjs.com) under the hood for more acurate and adaptable layout positioning. Also, each calendar shares a single popover for all day attributes for better performance.

### `v-calendar` Deprecations

| Props | Comments |
| --- | --- |
| `is-double-paned` | Use `rows` and `columns` instead |
| `is-vertical` | Use `rows` and `columns` instead |
| `is-linked` | Calendar panes are now always linked |
| `title-transition` | Now tied to `transition` prop |
| `weeks-transition` | Now tied to `transition` prop |
| `pane-width` | Use the new `theme` prop or just plain CSS |
| `theme-styles` | Use the new `theme` prop or just plain CSS |

| Events | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `daymouseover` | Use `daymouseenter` instead |
